US military now
what it calls the heart of Gaza City.
They said today
it destroyed more tunnels used by Hamas.
According to the IDF,
these tunnels were located near
a school sponsored by the UN.
The IDF also announced
they had destroyed
at least 130 tunnel shafts
since the start of the war.
Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu said earlier this week
that Israel
would maintain security
over the Gaza Strip for,
quote, an indefinite period.
For Germany, Diamond has more,
including new footage of what
that urban combat looks like.
An Israeli armored
vehicle advances
through the Al-Shati refugee camp,
but an ambush awaits.
Moments earlier, the same video
shows a Hamas fighter
armed with a rocket propelled grenade
moving slowly from behind the rubble.
These are Hamas
propaganda videos
from the perspective of its fighters
showing Hamas militants
peering around buildings
and through the rubble
before striking armored vehicles.
CNN has
geolocated several
videos released in recent days
to northern Gaza
in Beit Hanoun,
a Tatra and the Shati refugee camp
indicating Hamas is likely
still mounting attacks in areas.
Israeli forces entered over a week ago.
The videos provide
a limited window into the group's
guerrilla tactics
and the threats Israeli forces
face as they move deeper into Gaza.
As we are moving
in, we're
fighting more and more close combat urban
combat type engagements.
The Israeli military says
its forces have encircled
and are now operating
in the heart of Gaza City,
where they face
the dangers of dense urban combat
and a vast network of tunnels
Hamas fighters are using to sneak up
on Israeli forces.
The nature of urban warfare is that,
you know,
they go down a tunnel
and come up somewhere else.
And that is exactly why
we are moving slowly.
We're not advancing.
We're not rushing into this.
We're taking strategic positions.
Israeli forces
say they've destroyed
130 Hamas tunnels,
shafts like this one
since launching their ground offensive.
We're just scratching
the surface of that.
But many more still remain.
German Dymond joins us now.
What's the latest on evacuation
options for civilians in Gaza?
Well, Anderson, in recent days, tens
of thousands of Palestinian
civilians have use those evacuation
corridors established
by the Israeli military
over the last several days to flee south.
In fact, just today,
according to the United Nations.
50,000 people took advantage
of a five hour window
to evacuate
south using Salahadin Road,
one of the main arteries
going north south in the Gaza Strip.
And all of this, Anderson, comes
not only as the Israeli
military is ramping up
its military operations in northern Gaza,
but also,
of course, as the humanitarian situation
there has grown worse.
Access to clean water
is extremely limited.
Hospitals are running
out of medical supplies,
running out of fuel
to carry out even basic
operational matters.
And Israeli officials are,
of course,
ramping up their ground
offensive in northern Gaza.
Israeli officials
now saying that Israeli
troops are operating
in the heart of Gaza City,
pressing forward with this advance
as the Israeli prime minister vows
no cease fire
unless hostages are released Anderson.
Jeremy Diamond, thanks so much.
Many Palestinian Americans
who made it out of Gaza
are just now getting home,
facing a very particular heartache.
The relief obviously, to be safe,
but worried every moment
about their friends and family
who are not.
My next guests are Americans who,
along with their almost two year
old son, were in Gaza on October seven,
visiting family.
They just got back to their home,
Massachusetts, rather.
Earlier this week,
Abood Okal and Wafaa
Abouzeid to join us now.
Welcome home.
First of all, how do you feel?
Are you exhausted?
We feel
I had a mixed feeling, to be honest.
I feel I'm happy because we're safe here.
We're back.
But our
thinking
minds
in Gaza,
because I still have my parents
over there, Abu Experience.
I'm still over there.
We take them every every minute
to make sure they're okay.
We made it here just because of Yousef.
I want to make sure he's. He's okay.
He is of his. Your.
Your baby. Yousef is my baby. He's.
He's going to turn two years next.
Next month.
You got home in time for his birthday?
Yeah. Yeah.
What was.
You had gone there both to visit family,
and you had spent
a couple of weeks there.
Obviously, you had no idea
this all was about to happen.
When did you realize?
Was it on the morning of October 7th
that you realized something has happened?
Exactly. Yeah.
I think that October 7th, we
it was 6:00 in the morning local time.
And I think I remember hearing
sounds of rockets launching.
And I woke up
Wafa and I said, I think that is
the sound of rockets.
And we checked out the windows
and indeed it was.
And then a few minutes later,
we were trying to look at news and
and then it was unclear at the beginning.
But then in a couple of hours
as news rolled out of of
what was happening that day,
we realized that we are we are in trouble
and that this is this is a
this is going to be a big event.
What was that going south?
Was it difficult?
And once you actually got together
and headed down there, it was chaotic.
I think
early that day
when we heard the announcement
by the IDF to head south,
there was no timeline given.
There were no specific instructions
other than just go to South of Wadi Reza,
which is basically Gaza
Valley, a landmark.
So everyone scrambled at this point.
I mean, did
you think the border might still be open?
Because I
mean, there was so much misinformation,
so much
I mean, people
didn't know what was going on,
but that Rafah border
has been shut this whole time.
So did you think you could
get out at that point or just thought,
get south and we'll figure it out?
Yeah, we tried a couple of times
going to Rafah border,
but every time we wait
for a couple of hours
and the gate, it's not opening,
so I'll leave.
And you were
you were a house
staying with dozens of other people.
Yeah. 40 people.
40 people. 40 people.
Yeah.
We used to share everything
with 40 people
and getting supplies and things.
What was that like?
It was so difficult.
It was.
You had a Your baby needs milk.
Oh, yeah.
Even that is even that.
Yeah. We.
We used to wake up every morning
thinking about, like, how
we're going to get water, bread, food
a boy would use to go with his brother,
waiting on the line, getting water and
and bread and come back
after seven, 6 hours
with one gallon of water for 40 people
and then like pieces of bread,
it's not enough for 40 people.
So we used to share
with what with the child's.
I mean, I think about it.
I mean, obviously all those kids,
which was he was really scared.
I mean,
what was his sense of what was going on?
I don't myself, I have to be
relaxed
when I when I hear all the sounds.
So I started to teach him, okay,
this is what you hear.
This is a fireworks.
Remember the 4th of July?
It's the same thing.
I don't
know if I don't think he trusted me.
I don't think he believed
that this is a fireworks.
And there's some point.
The middle ground.
At some point.
The milk did run out. Yeah.
Yeah.
The we are now in the beginning
because I knew it's
we're going to run out at some point.
So I started to reduce has his bottle
like from
pole model to half bottle giving him.
So the last five days or a week
so we run completely out of milk.
I used to give him water instead of milk.
It's got to be this
strange feeling of being relieved
that you're out.
And yet
your family's there.
We're still processing
what we experienced.
I can't believe.
I can't believe our short trip
just turned to the nightmare.
And even though we're physically out,
I think mentally we're still there.
I think at some points
it cannot be a worse
to be on the outside.
Nothing is worse
than being inside of Gaza right now.
Whether if you're not dying
from from the airstrikes
or shelling, you're you're
you're at higher risk of dying
because of dehydrate and lack of food.
And and
despite that little aid that's coming
in, it's it's not really making.
It's not moving the needle.
Well, thank you so much.
I'm so glad your your your back. And I'm.
But I understand that
that tug
and that feel of family left behind.
I'm sorry that.
That you have that.
Thanks for having us. Yeah, Thank you.
Thank you, Anderson.